This is a brief description of the tools I used, issues I encountered and results I found when testing multiple antivirus vendors.

I was brought into my current role as a system administrator for a company that previously did not have any dedicated IT department or managed service provider. The infrastructure was lacking and policies were not in place yet. On this surface, jumping into this type of role would seem sadistic at best to most IT professionals but it provided a great opportunity to learn a lot of different roles and wear lots of different hats. Plus, lets be real, anything I did would be an improvement and help the company overall by at least establishing a process.

My latest goal is to get some endpoint security solution rolled out to each of our endpoints. Given that this is my first sys admin role, my previous experience with antivirus solutions consisted of loading the free version of Malwarebytes on my parents computer and telling them to stop downloading every flash player they encountered. That being said, I try to attend local B Sides instances whenever possible. So I at least had some introduction to live malware samples. I also am subscribed to /r/hacking so I’m pretty much an expert.

Lets introduce the contenders in this review. There were 4 main vendors I was evaluating. MalwareBytes, Sophos, CrowdStrike and Cylance. Now, if you go talk to them, they will all give you a nice demo and their sales pitch. They will have a nice collection of malware samples and will let you pick out which you would like run and even sometimes show how their competitors stack up to the same sample. I think if you’re reading this, you most likely can spot why this is mostly a waste of time and a marketing tactic for less tech savvy potential clients or possibly people who just don’t care enough to take a step further. I won’t claim to have an special testing abilities or even an entry level knowledge of malware. But, I do believe in at least an effort towards the scientific method, some basic organization and planning can go a long way. So let’s jump in. 

	This also ended up my first time actually installing High Sierra on VirtualBox. Lets just say Apple did not make this user friendly. Standing on the shoulders of giants is more or less how I live my life though, so after several Google searches I found some very helpful articles. I started with this [Caffeine Security article](https://blog.caffeinesecurity.com/creating-a-macos-high-sierra-vm-for-virtualbox-mac-host-bb67eada27af) which ended up having a couple other articles embedded in it that, when pieced together, got me a running instance of High Sierra to test from. I did also need to employ [this article](http://osxdaily.com/2017/09/27/download-complete-macos-high-sierra-installer/) to actually get the full High Sierra instance instead of just the installer.  I would love to say I checked all those hashes and verified the programs I downloaded like a good sys admin and tech professional but considering it was all going on a machine that was now forever being used for malware testing, I didn’t care. I made one running virtual machine and then just copied it three more times so I would have the same instance for each vendor being tested. I also took the time to load on Wireshark or any other tools I thought I might want before copying the image.  

	Lets chat about the samples themselves. I dont have any honeypots running or places I can pull live samples from and quite frankly we haven’t had any major breaches with anything serious. Queue the Google searches again (also shoutout to the local infosec slack channel for pointing me in the direction of some of these). Here are the two spots I pulled form:
* https://github.com/ytisf/theZoo
* https://objective-see.com/malware.html
	Now I realize that AV vendors can easily find these samples and protect against them, but its about the best I can do with my resources (time frame and actual manpower) and I feel like its at least doing my due diligence. Since these are publicly facing samples, if the antivirus did not detect it that would certainly raise some red flags for me.
